---
layout: post
title: "June 2025"
description: ""
date: 2025-06-30
feature_image: images/brooklyn.png
---

This June, I opted for an interruption to the scheduled programming and chose to upload an essay I wrote for Taylor Black in response to our maturing ideas of beauty and New York City. I wrote this paper with my mother and home in mind, spending hours listening to the Strokes while overlooking the Manhattan skyline and smoking Chinese cigarettes from Flushing, Queens. 

<!--more-->

**Shame, I have come to understand, as a uniquely male emotion**, where anyone else would feel simply indifferent. Before flying out to Duke for the first time, I chose to attend the send-off party in Los Angeles and invited my mother. Upon our late arrival to the Westside, I interrupted student introductions and found I was the only person to live past The 10. I looked over at my mother sitting alone, finding it difficult to mingle with the other parents and felt that I put her back in high school. I saw my mother as a girl. 
Maria del Carmen, or Carmen, ventured into the United States at the age of nine and attended high school in the Valley despite living in East Los Angeles. Soon, she began this legacy of discomfiture with our home after her green passport meant college would be just out of reach. She had more reason to feel this shame, but I was the one who paraded this feeling.
Boyle Heights and neighborhoods ‘like it’ carry this unforgiving burden. Those with a claim to land here shout their pride but still wish to recast its beauty. 
My mother and I were raised in the same house, yet since my arrival in New York City, these generational homes, which once existed within my line of sight, now lie beyond my reach. Thus, I embarked on yet another adventure into a neighborhood more similar to mine in California. 
Before leaving Brooklyn Heights, however, I answered a knock at the door and quickly entered a handyman named Emmanuel suited in a familiar green soccer jersey. I asked about his background, where he revealed that he had immigrated from Mexico thirty years ago around the same time as my father. Not unlike my parents and other immigrant communities, he chose to follow the familiar and arrived in the Bronx, where he met his wife and raised his children. 
My father, however, followed the other seventeen-year-olds from his town in Guatemala to Pico-Union in the late nineties. And, while attending church with my mother, she gradually taught him English and later began their lives together as Americans in Boyle Heights.
In this way, these neighborhoods are our genesis.
In her “The Promise of New York,” Schwartz, introduces these relevant themes of attack, attacks on Emmanuel's family in the Bronx and mine in Boyle Heights. Immigrants exist as “the very heart of this town” despite the continued rhetoric around their presence influencing the decline of this Great America. Here, Schwartz writes that “no city depends more, for its soul, and its survival, on the collective,” yet my insistence on abandoning my history meant I was also abandoning the people who gifted me my voice and story. My shame in the beauty of these communities and our home meant something more, an issue uniquely mine. 
Nevertheless, I carried these conflicting sentiments with me and embarked on my journey to the Bronx. After stepping onto The D Train at the 59th Street / Columbus Circle station, I was welcomed by a train car of women and children. Seemingly, every mother carried grocery bags in front of them. The ones who did not, instead, wrangled with their strollers racing down the aisle.  
Exiting at the Fordham station, I took a look around, watching as parents carried boxes of pizza to their families while others sold bag lunches on street corners. Eventually, I made my way down East 187th Street with a gift shop in mind whilst thinking about my younger brothers who live three hours behind.
However, on my trek back home, I stopped outside a hairstylist with a flickering barber's pole, struggling to spin as intended. Outside the barber shop, these sisters spoke in tongues (Dominican Spanish) as they gossiped about the neighborhood children's happenings while resting on lawn chairs they brought from home. Their male counterparts sat inside with capes around their necks, likely doing the same with their barbers and longtime friends. 
Watching these hairstylists adjust their clients in the mirror reminded me of my beautification story in New York City. After a class tour of the West Village, I wandered down the steps of Astor Place Hairstylists where celebrity photographs decorated the entrance walls. 
I was assigned to Jose. Rather, I was assigned to sit in Jose's chair. While his peers may describe him as "quiet and unassuming," conversing with him in Spanish revealed a different, more brazen side of him. After presenting Jose with a photograph of myself from a few months prior, he stared me down and invited his opinions—his many opinions. 
He reminded me of my Tío Roberto, who would routinely trim my hair as a child in our backyard and wash it away with the garden hose, always to the liking of my father, who insisted that refined men, like me, are best suited for a slick back appearance. 
Ultimately, I gave him free rein and creative freedom as part of my welcoming New York City (and appeasing Jose). After his hair comb caught on my helix piercings, Jose disapproved of men from my generation and our desire to emulate past rock stars with shoulder-length hair, denim jackets, and boot-cut jeans. 
Sitting there brought me back to late summers in Boyle Heights, sitting shirtless on a metal folding chair, while my Tío Roberto offered me advice on how to flirt with the girls in my grade. Well, I stared back at myself and thought about how this new haircut would be my entrance to the new school year and this summer. 
I could not leave Jose’s chair, though, without asking about his life in New York City. See, Jose had immigrated to the United States from Argentina in the eighties and started at Astor Place nearly thirty years ago. He shared with me how the West Village had changed, and despite all the celebrities who had sat in front of him, he took the most pride in a particular group. 
Every month, he and the proprietors of local family-owned businesses in the West Village arrange haircuts and pub crawls (or the equivalent for older men) to discuss the neighborhood scene. In this way, he and the sisters sitting in lawn chairs engaged in this distinct human ceremony of gossip and whisper. 
Before filling me in on every Spanish bar in each borough, he told me about having immigrated from Argentina and settling in Harlem with his family. In the midst of his rant about the men from my generation, he put into picture for me this look he tried to emulate in each of the haircuts he gave to his sons. He wanted to gift me ‘this look.’ 
In telling me about his life in Harlem, I was brought back to Resident Alien where Quentin Crisp, famously an Englishman in New York City, reluctantly attends an art performance and demonstration by Franco the Great. Crisp’s hesitation, however, lay not in his disapproval of New Art but in the home of the artist: 125th Street. Upon his arrival, Franco the Great presented him with a white rose and insisted that, “a rose grows in Harlem, too.”
Why, then, do even outsiders, including Quentin Crisp, insist on carrying these assumptions about the homes of artists, creatives, and everyday people. Why, then, did I feel ashamed at the Duke sendoff party when my mother found company in the waitstaff?   
Arriving at Duke and reflecting on environments ‘like’ Boyle Heights revealed to me my long-neglected pride in the people who form these neighborhoods. In engaging with the people of New York City (and not the West Village Girls), I uncovered generations of humility in these neighborhoods people often dismiss.
Only a man, like myself, could ever be ashamed of something, someone so beautiful. 

